# An Open Lexington

First draft started: 6.14.10

Rough draft started: 6.20.10

Modified by David Rhodus: 6.23.10

Authors: Chase Southard, David Rhodus, Lindsey Upton, << add authors >>

<< rough draft / narrative >>

An Open Lexington

Despite our individual political viewpoints, the community of Lexington can likely agree on one practical point: government data should be made freely available to the people. Just as we assert that government representatives work for the people, so too do we assert government agencies and the data generated by such entities should be made freely available to the people. It makes sense that a popular representative government is held accountable for sharing information pertinent to the common public represented. The Freedom of Information Act (1966) and OPEN Government Act (2007) are some examples of legislative initiatives to make information and data accessible to the public. However, the challenge remains that citizens must make formal requests to obtain government data, often times proving inefficient and unnecessary. In an era where technology has served in making information far more accessible and effortlessly obtained, it seems reasonable take advantage of such advancements and apply them to the public pursuit of obtaining government data and information online. Previous resistence to open data forums have been subject to political, bureaucratic, and special interest advocacies, inhibiting the full potential online endeavors of this nature can reach.

We would like to introduce contemporary, local advocacy for change to an open online database, OpenLexingtonn. OpenLexington is a non-profit, non-partisan organization that is working to promote local transparency and empower citizen through open data. We are working with the Lexington Fayette Urban County Government (LFUCG) to make public data more open, available and useful. OpenLexington will make data requests, provide a mirror of data, provide an open machine-readable version of data (if not already available), and create application programming interfaces for researchers, analysts, journalist, and scholars to access LFUCG data programmatically. 

Transparency advocates often assert that an open and transparent government is key to a greater, inclusive, more effective, and more trustworthy democracy. Similarly, many researchers and citizen engineers have argued that information wants to be free, open, and accessible. Our technological progress continues to bring government and transparency closer to each other. Together in cooperation with LFUCG, active citizens, and OpenLexington, we can make our city more inclusive, and more effective. Through advocacy of a nationwide movement to promote a more open and trasnparent government, connected with the common wealth of it's citizens, Lexington can contribute as other citizens, organizations, and agencies in Austin, TX, New York, NY, Seattle, WA, Portland, OR, Ann Arbor, MI, San Francisco, CA, and Washington, D.C have done. As larger cities have made progress and witnessed success in the betterment of access to government data, so too can the Lexington community.







==============================================================================


NOTES SECTION - DON'T READ
<< notes; loosely connected ideas; audience?; message? >>

The idea of a government constructed by, built for, and accountable to the people is not a new one. It's the very foundation of our great nation. An accompanying idea to that of a popular representative government is one that information wants to be free. An open and transparent government is key to a greater, inclusive, more effective, and more trustworthy democracy. Data belongs to the people.

But sometimes, there is resistance. Sometimes, there are difficulties in the release of information. Sometimes bureaucracy, politics, or special interests get in the way of transparency. Perhaps, that's just the way of things. Rather, that's the way things were. 

Information is stored digitally. This information is stored in database servers hidden in the back office closet, stored in massive data centers, stored on tiny flash drives. The distribution of knowledge and information has never before been so effortless. 

If government information is public domain and the distribution of this information can so easily be accessed through web infrastructure then all it is reasonable that all of this information should be publicly available online.

Lexington is a great city to live, work, and raise a family. 

Lexington is a perfect model for local transparency of mid-sized cities.

Transparency benefits the people. Complete transparency and open government data benefits local businesses, university scholars, 

<< where to introduce openlexington? >>
